Hello, my name is Christoph Becker.
I'm the principal of Port Elgin
Regional School, and I'd like to talk to
you folks for a little project
that we've done at our school.
It's a greenhouse,
and it grew out of the necessity of food
in our community
because we're a low socioeconomic area.
So we built this incredible greenhouse,
which most people see in.
It's an industrial greenhouse.
It's not a small endeavor,
but it turned into something
much more than just a means
of getting food for our children.
And it created, a means of
doing a project based learning block.
And out of that,
we created a unit called sustainability,
where we now have food in the greenhouse,
we have bees, we have a solar array
and, food force and our school
and composting all that stuff
so the children could learn and use it.
An incredible vessel.
But beyond that, the greenhouse
now produces food for our children.
In the cafeteria,
we go around with a salad bar.
Once the lettuce is growing at peak
season, usually end of February till June.
And we see that serving salad
and it reduces the cost in the cafeteria.
This lettuce also goes to a local charity
who feeds about 38 of our children
a hot lunch program.
So it's just a vessel of of ways
to give back.
So and I this greenhouse is unique.
And we made it when we looked at
how to build it, we wanted a four season
greenhouse because the children
are in school from September till June,
and most greenhouses only grow up
to about October, maybe end of November.
This one will go to the end of December
because it has a climate battery
where heat is stored underground,
and then it will commence again
in the end of February,
and we can produce as much lettuces
as possible at that point.
So it's become an incredible learning
tool.
It's a huge endeavor to start.
But when we started,
we first got that initial
grant through a food, food grant.
I think it's approximately $20,000.
And as soon as we had that, everybody in
the community started come in, we
had sponsors that would step in and clubs,
and everybody started giving money.
And then it just took off.
And it was easy,
to get the money to make it.
So if you want something like this,
I would highly encourage it because it's
incredible tool for not only food security
but for teaching kids at all levels.